1. My project will be a port of my first project in this class, rebuilt from the ground up in Swift for iOS using the additional knowledge I've gained throughout this class. It will serve as an invoice manager for my father's business, for which I worked for several years myself and am thus at least somewhat familiar with its financial structure. I've also met with my father and had him inform me on what he needs and, of course, have already built a Java project for him (mostly) covering those needs. However, his main working device is his iPad, which he uses for most of his paperwork and electronic logging. I wanted to develop the original app for iOS but lacked the knowledge. I've since worked with iOS development and database management and thus feel confident enough to develop the app he needs with all of the features I originally wanted to implement, including but not limited to server-side storage so he can still use the Java app from his laptop if he wants to, perhaps for more detailed management that an iPad/iOS app may not provide as well. This will, of course, require that I revisit the original program, too, but that obviously won't be covered in this project.




2. This app will be specifically developed for my father and his business, but with the idea that it could be potentially generalized at a future date to be used for general invoice management or even financial management in general depending on how far I choose to take it. Given my time frame, I will make it very specialized for my father's needs but use smart programming practices to attempt for proper abstraction and compartmentalization to allow for further generalized development at a future date. Naturally this is appealing to my father and his business because it's something he's approached me to build for him and will include everything necessary for his invoice management, and this time for his preferred device and with server-side storage as well, finally fulfilling all of his wants.




3. The purpose of this app, of course, is to fulfill the invoice management needs of my father's business in the most simple yet detailed way possible. There obviously is not a perfect app tailored to my father's needs on the market currently, though some may come close. Additionally, most apps that would provide a service like this would probably cost a subscription fee. Being that my app is both for a school project and to help my father, it will be permanently free. My previous program was also made for this purpose, of course, but being that it was my first real project it was clunky and didn't include all of the features he wanted.




      The app will naturally be helpful as he is currently either using pen and paper to manage his invoices or needing to use my hacky Java program through his laptop, both of which have their obvious downsides. Allowing him to use his preferred device, the iPad, of which he's legally required to have with him in his truck while he drives anyway as it also functions as his electronic logging device allows him to leave the giant notebooks and his bulky laptop at home and have all of his "paperwork" in one device. Allowing for both local and server-side storage means his invoices can be saved when he has no service, a rare but very possible occurrence in his line of work, as well as safe storage through a server when available in case of device failure or access through another device, such as his laptop when he's at home and his iPad is still in his truck.




4. 1. Storage related bugs. 2. UI Bugs. 3. Logic errors.




      As with any program, bugs are expected and will be logically prevented to the best of my ability both through good programming practices and with ample testing. Especially when finances are concerned, bug testing is among the most important things and will be taken very seriously. Storage related bugs are expected as I've never worked with actual, true server-side storage before and will have to learn a familiar but new skillset, though it seems my prior experience with SQL/general database management will come in handy and make whichever tool I choose (almost certainly Firebase) much easier to learn and work with. UI bugs are, naturally, expected, and will hopefully be caught while developing and testing, though some may slip through and will hopefully be caught by my father as I periodically have him use the app through several testing phases. Finally, logic errors, of which is the most important and dangerous, as improper math could result in actual financial loss or worse. Many of these won't be caught by my IDE and thus I'll have to be very careful to perform the proper logic at all times and will have to go through extensive testing myself and have my father do plenty of his own to ensure not a single logic error gets through. Even one could be detrimental and so I will be very cautious and extremely critical when developing the logic in this app.




5. I'm moving forward with this project for several reasons. The first and foremost being that it's the most convenient way for my father to handle his invoices, something of which he's been asking for for many years and it's the least I can do to help him. However, on a personal note, I'm excited to come back to my very first real project and rebuild it with all of the knowledge I've gained since the beginning of this class, allowing me to not only create a final project that finally satisfies me and all of the things I originally wanted to include, but also implementing development and design decisions that I didn't have the skill or knowledge to use upon the first "attempt." While the original project was satisfactory and functional, it was limited by my lack of knowledge and experience, and while I wouldn't claim to be a professional or even particularly great at programming now by any means, I'm certainly better than I was when I created the first version and am perhaps more excited to see how I develop the project than seeing the final result. Additionally, I now know the importance of having a proper design developed before beginning to code, as the original project went through several iterations as I realized what would and wouldn't work, what did and didn't need to be implemented, and how the app should and shouldn't be interacted with. Thus, I will design the concept of the app first before I write any code, allowing for a more accurate and focused development.